Document <input type=color> serialization w/ colorspace & alpha (#40260)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlinputelement/colorspace/index.md

---
title: "HTMLInputElement: colorSpace property"
short-title: colorSpace
slug: Web/API/HTMLInputElement/colorSpace
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLInputElement.colorSpace
---

{{ApiRef("HTML DOM")}}

> The **`colorSpace`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLInputElement")}} interface reflects the {{HTMLElement("input")}} element's [`colorspace`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/input/color#colorspace) attribute, indicating the color space of the serialized CSS color (SRGB or display-p3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`colorSpace`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLInputElement")}} interface reflects the {{HTMLElement("input")}} element's [`colorspace`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/input/color#colorspace) attribute. Relevant to the `color` input type only, it indicates whether the {{glossary("color space")}} of the serialized CSS color is `sRGB` (the default) or `display-p3`.
```

## Value

> A string representing the element's `colorspace` value. Possible values:
> 
> - `"limited-srgb"`: The SRGB color space and limited to 8-bits per component, e.g., `#123456` or `color(srgb 0 1 0 / 0.5)`.
> - `"display-p3"`: The Display P3 color space, e.g., `color(display-p3 1.84 -0.19 0.72 / 0.6)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A string; the value of the [`colorspace`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/input/color#colorspace) attribute ("limited-srgb" or "display-p3") or the empty string ("") if unspecified.
```
I did not test. But if this assumption is correct, let's update it this way.
We limit values to just the value type, or the type and a brief explanation. Longer explanations go in the description section before the value.

if the value is "gibberish", does it return "gibberish"? does it convert the value to lowercase if you set the value to uppercase?

Reviewer: We limit values to just the value type, or the type and a brief explanation. Longer explanations go in the description section before the value.

Author: Is this a new writing guideline? I quite like listing possible values in the value section. I see many examples of this in existing docs.
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/dir#value
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PressureRecord/state#value
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEntry/entryType#value
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XRSession/environmentBlendMode#value
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/globalCompositeOperation#value

Reviewer 2: I am doing the cleanup for `<img>` in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/40562. This is definitely a new convention we should document, but idk a good place to put it because we don't have specific templates for HTML/SVG DOM IDL bindings, so it's just inferred from existing documents (new ones, not legacy ones).

Reviewer 3: Yes, I was thinking we could add a bit in https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/API_property_subpage_template#value to cover reflected attributes

Author: So, the idea here is that reflected property pages are quite minimal and do not repeat information from the HTML documentation? I think that is fair. The comment Estelle gave me above was: 

> We limit values to just the value type, or the type and a brief explanation. Longer explanations go in the description section before the value.

Which is different to what you are saying that we shouldn't have this information on this page at all. So, I think we should agree on and document a guideline. Otherwise the consistency y'all are after here, seems impossible to get to (especially for non-frequent authors like me) :)

You probably don't want to go that far and say reflected properties get a new page-type, but the varying writing conventions to the ordinary property pages would be good to agree on and to document somewhere. 

I will accept your suggestion in the meantime.

Reviewer 2: Estelle's suggestion is what I'm referring to: as brief as possible. We shouldn't even note the list of permitted values

## Examples

### Getting and setting color spaces

```html

> <input id="color-picker" type="color" colorspace="display-p3" alpha />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<input id="color-picker" type="color" colorspace="DISPLAY-P3" alpha />
```
or otherwise change the casing to demonstrate that the log returns all lowercase, even if the value is not set that way.

Author: This gives me HTML4 vibes. Do we really need to show this in 2025?

Reviewer: it answers the question above "Does it convert the value to lowercase if you set the value to uppercase?". We can just go with a capital D, P, or both.

Reviewer 2: This has nothing to do with the feature of `colorspace` in particular and is just general HTML syntax. For example, we would not be demonstrating that you can write `<NoScript>` or `<BR>` for every element, or `Margin-Left` for every CSS property.
